Acetaminophen is used to treat mild to moderate pain.
Including headaches, muscle aches, backache,
toothaches, arthritis, menstrual pain,
colds and fevers.
It is part of a class of medications known as
analgesics or pain relievers
and antipyretics or fever reducers.
Although exactly how it works isn't known,
Acetaminophen targets the central nervous system.
and inhibits activation of an enzyme known as
Cyclooxygenase or COX.
Within the body COX changes fatty acids,
in this case arachidonic acid,
into a substance known as Protaglandin.
Prostaglandin possesses protective qualities
that benefit the body
and is neccessary for cell function.
However, the substance can also generate
pain, inflammation and fever.
By blocking COX and the resulting production of Prostaglandin,
Acetaminophen reduces both symptoms and fever.